Next up I want to spend a little more time talking about this slide not just this beautiful slide with
this stock photograph but the content functions being objects and what that means because we're going
to prepare for the next video where we talk about using functions within functions excepting functions
as arguments returning functions as values.
But first let's talk more about functions as objects.
So we saw that we could store a function in a variable.
We can also store functions in something like an array if we wanted to.
So let's see a quick example of that.
I'm going to define four different functions.
Just very simple ones add we'll be the first one it returns x plus y and I'll mix up the different ways
we declare them.
So we have a function statement.
Now we'll do a function expression.
So I'll do const subtract equals function.
I'll leave it anonymous.
X and y and it returns x minus y and then I'll do multiply function Multiply multiply x y return X times
Y and then one more is divide and I'll just duplicate this.
So we have divide and it returns x divided by Y.
So we have four functions.
Now I'm gonna put them all in an array.
So I'll call this array operations for different operations and all I need to do is add subtract multiply
and divide.
Now I have an array with four operations which are each a function.
So for functions stored in an array and if I wanted to execute any of them let's say I want to call
subtract that is index of 1 0 1.
So if I run my code over here I can call operations square brackets one that gives me the function that
doesn't call it.
That's like me just typing subtract.
I'm not executing it.
I'm just getting the value back which is an object.
It's a function which is an object but if I add my perennials afterwards right now I'm getting not a
number because I haven't passed in any values so I'm gonna pass in.
Let's go with one hundred and four and I get ninety six one hundred minus four X is one hundred Why
is four.
If I wanted to call multiply index of two and I get four hundred Index of three will give me divide
and index of 0 gives me add.
Now this isn't very useful putting them in an array to just call them manually one at a time it's a
lot clearer if I just say add whatever one hundred and four we can see what we're doing but the point
that I'm trying to make here is that we can do things like loop over this array and call each function
so we don't have to hardcoded I could do a four of.
So for let let's call it func of operations
func is going to hold one of these functions as if it were a number or a string or any other value in
an array because it is it's just any other value as far as javascript is concerned it doesn't care and
if I just write func once again that's not calling the function that's what I did right here I'm referencing
it I'm getting the value but to execute it I need parents.
So this variable will hold one of these functions each time through and by adding the Puritans will
call for different functions by the time this loop finishes running.
So let's just hard code in some numbers let's do.
How about thirty and five.
Okay and I'm not going to see a value I won't see anything happen because I'm not printing anything
out it's all being returned I just ran it you don't see anything happen so let's store each result in
a variable we'll call it result and then let's do a console dot log result
okay.
Let's run it.
And there we go.
We ran for functions with this loop.
Maybe not something you would do but I wanted to show you can we can treat functions as any other value.
We can loop over them in an array.
We can even store them in objects.
So we have thirty five.
That was for ad thirty plus five.
Then we have subtract thirty minus five.
We have multiply 30 times five and divide 30 divided by five.
So one more thing I'll just show that we can store them in an object.
We'll just go with a meaningless example for now.
This is a topic we will revisit quite a bit.
I'll make an object called thing and I'll set one property on it called Do Something and it will be
equal to the value will be multiplied so no quotes or anything not the string multiply like this.
But the function multiply.
I don't know no I'm saying multiply multiply.
So we're now storing a function as a value in this object.
And if I run my code and I look at thing we have a property called Do Something.
That's the key and the value is a function.
So I can call thing dot do something.
This doesn't execute it just like we saw earlier.
I'm simply getting the value I add the Pyrenees.
Now it's running but it doesn't have any arguments.
So we'll do 50.
And two it multiplies them and we get one hundred.
So I'm calling this function multiply.
But it's part of an object I'm referencing the object the property with the parents and it calls it.
Now this might look kind of familiar where we have thing dot something and we put friends after it.
That's because we just wrote our very first method by adding a function to an object.
We're creating a method just like we have to uppercase.
Notice we're doing the exact same thing.
Some value dot to uppercase or if we have an array.
Well that's not a valid array.
We have an array Don and then we call.
How about index of index of two.
It tells us that's at index 1.
This is a function but it's stored on the array.
We're going to come back to objects and how we add methods and putting functions in objects and all
that stuff in a separate section.
So that's not the main takeaway here.
That's a bigger topic but I wanted to show that functions are simply values in JavaScript.
We can store them in an array.
We can call them dynamically put them in this func variable each time through the loop execute it.
It's just a placeholder name.
This will store the value of add or subtract or multiply or divide and actually executed.
We can also put a function in an object.
So next we're going to see more of using functions within functions.
So passing functions as an argument to another function or returning a function which is actually a
very key part of javascript.
So let's get started.
That's next.